Hello and welcome to this new tutorial and mostly to this new very essential code section because indeed
that's in this code section that will implement the whole Tompson sampling algorithm.
And as you can see we're also going to implement the random strategy you know just selecting randomly
a strategy at each round that is each time a customer connects to the online retail business website
and that's of course to assess how more performance art Thompson sampling algorithm can be compared
to a benchmark and as benchmark we take the random strategy and mostly in the end you'll see will compute
exactly how much revenues this online retail business will make more than it is would make by just you
know deploying any of the nine strategies.
All right so we'll compete not only the revenues earned that is the extra revenues made on the experiment
because the goal is to save some costs on the experiment but then will also compute how much extra revenues
it makes the whole year.
You know because as soon as you get the best strategy you're going to of course deploy it on all your
customers to convert you know your millions of customers.
And since you have the best strategy that will maximize the revenues over the year.
So we can do that as well but for now we have to implement Tompson something first in order to catch
that best strategy.
All right so here we go let's start implementing Thompson standing.
So first of all remember that in the Thompsons underlying algorithm we'll have to take some random draws
from the beta distributions you know we'll have a beta distribution for each of the nine strategies.
By the way I'm going to open the Thompson sampling algorithm.
Here it is.
Now as I just told you you know remember and step one for each strategy.
I will take a random draw from the following beta distribution with these two parameters and we have
different parameters of course for each of the nine strategies.
So since we're going to take some random draws from the beta distribution Well the first thing we're
going to do here is to import random.
And actually if you want we can even put that here because that's where we import all our libraries
so in-born them.
And this doesn't belong to non-pilots because you know we have directedness random module that contains
the beta Vrede function which is exactly a function that can return a sample from the beta distribution.
So we don't have to import them by we have directy what we want.
So import run them and then here we go.
Let's first introduce our variables that we'll use to implement this algorithm.
All right.
And speaking of these variables we have to initialize six variables in total and more precisely we have
to initialize three variables for the random strategy and three variables for Thompson sampling and
these three variables will be the same for the random strategy and Tompson sampling.
Indeed the first one is the list of the strategies selected.
So we'll make a list for the random strategy and the list for the Thompson sampling strategy.
Then the second variable will be the toll we word that is action related reward that we get over the
round which is simply the sum of the rewards accumulated over the round and then the third variable
will be of course the reward we get at each round.
And they'll be the reward of the random strategy you know by selecting randomly.
Strategy Well we'll get the rewards 0 or 1.
And then of course the reward of Tompson sampling at each round so Tompson something will select the
strategy and say we'll get a 0 or 1.
And this third variable will get that value 0 or 1.
And then finally we have to initialize two extra variables which are only related to Tompson sampling.
And then of course you know these two variables the number of times the strategy has received a reward
one up to around and and this one the number of times the strategy has received a reward 0 up to round.
And since we have to make these variables for each of the nine strategies Well what we'll do is simply
make a list of nine elements.
Each element of this list will correspond to a strategy and will contain.
Of course this number of times that this strategy has received one word or zero we want to count them.
So we'll make two lists one for each of these two numbers.
All right.
So let's do this.
That's basically the initialization step.
And so naturally that's what we have to start with.
OK.
So the first variable as we said is strategies selected.
So I'm just giving a random name here.
You can call it any other way.
And as a reminder this is going to be a list of the strategies are selected over the round so by the
end of the 10000 round we'll get a list of 10000 elements each of them will be strategies elected at
the round and we're going to make that for the random strategies that we're adding are as here run strategy
and we'll make another one for the Thompson something strange no.
TS Thompson sampling and will initialises to list as empty list because of course the beginning we haven't
selected anything.
So strategies selected of the Ranum strategy and the Thompson sampling strategy.
All right then next viable.
So the next verbal is as we said the total reward or if you want the accumulated reward and again we're
going to compute that for the Ranum strategy.
So I'm adding our s here to specify difference and the Thompson sampling strategy.
And again we have to initialize that these won't be less of course but numbers.
And so we initialize that to zero because of course we haven't received any reward.
So the accumulated reward is zero for both.
All right.
So total reward for the randoms Reggie and the Thompson sampling strategy.
Great.
And then the next step as we said we have a third variable you know which is the rewards like that are
each round but that of course will be introduced later in the loop.
Of course you know we'll loop over all the rounds from 0 to 10000 and that each round will collect the
reward that we get by selecting the strategy either with the Ranum strategy or the Thompson sampling
algorithm.
So we'll use that in the loop but then remember we said that we had some extra variables to introduce
which are Remember these two variables.
And as we said we're going to introduce them in lists.
So we're going to make a first list for this horrible and I want and which is number of times the strategies
from 1 to 9 have received a 1 we weren't up to around.
And and then we'll do the same we'll create the same list of nine elements each of these elements of
the next I will grasp onto the strategy.
I and will contain a number of times the strategy has received is zero we want to run it.
So here we go.
Let's introduce these variables to make that as clear as possible I'm going to name them.
But again feel free to name them by any other names numbers of rewards.
So you know I'm specifying numbers because we're going to get these numbers for each of the nine strategies
in the list of nine elements.
So numbers are rewards.
And then you know I'm adding one specified that this is this number and I want the number of times the
strategies have received a one word around.
And then of course for the second element we're going to simply name it this way.
Numbers of rewards zero.
All right.
And that will correspond to of course this number the number of times the treasuries have received as
you were warned about.
So make sure you understand this.
This will work perfectly well.
Now let's initialize that.
So to initialize the list the best way there is a trick.
We're not going to you know put nine zeros in square brackets because of course at the beginning.
Well none of the strategies received any reward.
So we have to initialize both of these lists as a list of nine zeros but we're not going to put nine
zeros into some square brackets.
We're going to use the following trick.
We're going to put one zero in square brackets here and then we'll multiply that by D and D is equal
to 9.
So this will create a list of nine zeros.
All right.
Same for our second list.
Here we go.
And perfect we have initialized everything.
So now we're ready to start the big for loop.
You know that will basically repeat you know repeat the following three steps.
So step 1 We'll take a random draw from the beta distribution for each of these strategies with these
two numbers that we just initialized.
Step 2 will take the maximum of these random draws and we'll get the strategy that corresponds to this
maximum.
And Step 3 of course we won't forget to update these two numbers.
There is number of times the strategies have received a 1 or Z what we want to round them.
So let's make this full loop in the next tutorial.
And until then enjoy AI.